CHAPTER VII

INTRODUCING CLAUDE AND EUSTACE


The blow fell precisely at one forty-five (summer time). Spenser, Aunt
Agatha's butler, was offering me the fried potatoes at the moment, and
such was my emotion that I lofted six of them on to the sideboard with
the spoon. Shaken to the core, if you know what I mean.

Mark you, I was in a pretty enfeebled condition already. I had been
engaged to Honoria Glossop nearly two weeks, and during all that time
not a day had passed without her putting in some heavy work in the
direction of what Aunt Agatha had called "moulding" me. I had read
solid literature till my eyes bubbled; we had legged it together
through miles of picture-galleries; and I had been compelled to undergo
classical concerts to an extent you would hardly believe. All in all,
therefore, I was in no fit state to receive shocks, especially shocks
like this. Honoria had lugged me round to lunch at Aunt Agatha's, and I
had just been saying to myself, "Death, where is thy jolly old sting?"
when she hove the bomb.

"Bertie," she said, suddenly, as if she had just remembered it, "what
is the name of that man of yours--your valet?"

"Eh? Oh, Jeeves."

"I think he's a bad influence for you," said Honoria. "When we are
married, you must get rid of Jeeves."

It was at this point that I jerked the spoon and sent six of the best
and crispest sailing on to the sideboard, with Spenser gambolling after
them like a dignified old retriever.

"Get rid of Jeeves!" I gasped.

"Yes. I don't like him."

"_I_ don't like him," said Aunt Agatha.

"But I can't. I mean--why, I couldn't carry on for a day without
Jeeves."

"You will have to," said Honoria. "I don't like him at all."

"_I_ don't like him at all," said Aunt Agatha. "I never did."

Ghastly, what? I'd always had an idea that marriage was a bit of
a wash-out, but I'd never dreamed that it demanded such frightful
sacrifices from a fellow. I passed the rest of the meal in a sort of
stupor.

The scheme had been, if I remember, that after lunch I should go off
and caddy for Honoria on a shopping tour down Regent Street; but when
she got up and started collecting me and the rest of her things, Aunt
Agatha stopped her.

"You run along, dear," she said. "I want to say a few words to Bertie."

So Honoria legged it, and Aunt Agatha drew up her chair and started in.

"Bertie," she said, "dear Honoria does not know it, but a little
difficulty has arisen about your marriage."

"By Jove! not really?" I said, hope starting to dawn.

"Oh, it's nothing at all, of course. It is only a little exasperating.
The fact is, Sir Roderick is being rather troublesome."

"Thinks I'm not a good bet? Wants to scratch the fixture? Well, perhaps
he's right."

"Pray do not be so absurd, Bertie. It is nothing so serious as that.
But the nature of Sir Roderick's profession unfortunately makes
him--over-cautious."

I didn't get it.

"Over-cautious?"

"Yes. I suppose it is inevitable. A nerve specialist with his extensive
practice can hardly help taking a rather warped view of humanity."

I got what she was driving at now. Sir Roderick Glossop, Honoria's
father, is always called a nerve specialist, because it sounds
better, but everybody knows that he's really a sort of janitor to the
looney-bin. I mean to say, when your uncle the Duke begins to feel the
strain a bit and you find him in the blue drawing-room sticking straws
in his hair, old Glossop is the first person you send for. He toddles
round, gives the patient the once-over, talks about over-excited
nervous systems, and recommends complete rest and seclusion and all
that sort of thing. Practically every posh family in the country has
called him in at one time or another, and I suppose that, being in that
position--I mean constantly having to sit on people's heads while their
nearest and dearest phone to the asylum to send round the wagon--does
tend to make a chappie take what you might call a warped view of
humanity.

"You mean he thinks I may be a looney, and he doesn't want a looney
son-in-law?" I said.

Aunt Agatha seemed rather peeved than otherwise at my ready
intelligence.

"Of course, he does not think anything so ridiculous. I told you he was
simply exceedingly cautious. He wants to satisfy himself that you are
perfectly normal." Here she paused, for Spenser had come in with the
coffee. When he had gone, she went on: "He appears to have got hold
of some extraordinary story about your having pushed his son Oswald
into the lake at Ditteredge Hall. Incredible, of course. Even you would
hardly do a thing like that."

"Well, I did sort of lean against him, you know, and he shot off the
bridge."

"Oswald definitely accuses you of having pushed him into the water.
That has disturbed Sir Roderick, and unfortunately it has caused him to
make inquiries, and he has heard about your poor Uncle Henry."

She eyed me with a good deal of solemnity, and I took a grave sip of
coffee. We were peeping into the family cupboard and having a look at
the good old skeleton. My late Uncle Henry, you see, was by way of
being the blot on the Wooster escutcheon. An extremely decent chappie
personally, and one who had always endeared himself to me by tipping me
with considerable lavishness when I was at school; but there's no doubt
he did at times do rather rummy things, notably keeping eleven pet
rabbits in his bedroom; and I suppose a purist might have considered
him more or less off his onion. In fact, to be perfectly frank, he
wound up his career, happy to the last and completely surrounded by
rabbits, in some sort of a home.

"It is very absurd, of course," continued Aunt Agatha. "If any of the
family had inherited poor Henry's eccentricity--and it was nothing
more--it would have been Claude and Eustace, and there could not be two
brighter boys."

Claude and Eustace were twins, and had been kids at school with me
in my last summer term. Casting my mind back, it seemed to me that
"bright" just about described them. The whole of that term, as I
remembered it, had been spent in getting them out of a series of
frightful rows.

"Look how well they are doing at Oxford. Your Aunt Emily had a letter
from Claude only the other day saying that they hoped to be elected
shortly to a very important college club, called The Seekers."

"Seekers?" I couldn't recall any club of the name in my time at Oxford.
"What do they seek?"

"Claude did not say. Truth or knowledge, I should imagine. It is
evidently a very desirable club to belong to, for Claude added
that Lord Rainsby, the Earl of Datchet's son, was one of his
fellow-candidates. However, we are wandering from the point, which is
that Sir Roderick wants to have a quiet talk with you quite alone.
Now I rely on you, Bertie, to be--I won't say intelligent, but at
least sensible. Don't giggle nervously: try to keep that horrible
glassy expression out of your eyes: don't yawn or fidget; and remember
that Sir Roderick is the president of the West London branch of the
anti-gambling league, so please do not talk about horse-racing. He will
lunch with you at your flat to-morrow at one-thirty. Please remember
that he drinks no wine, strongly disapproves of smoking, and can only
eat the simplest food, owing to an impaired digestion. Do not offer him
coffee, for he considers it the root of half the nerve-trouble in the
world."

"I should think a dog-biscuit and a glass of water would about meet the
case, what?"

"Bertie!"

"Oh, all right. Merely persiflage."

"Now it is precisely that sort of idiotic remark that would be
calculated to arouse Sir Roderick's worst suspicions. Do please try to
refrain from any misguided flippancy when you are with him. He is a
very serious-minded man.... Are you going? Well, please remember all
I have said. I rely on you, and, if anything goes wrong, I shall never
forgive you."

"Right-o!" I said.

And so home, with a jolly day to look forward to.

       *       *       *       *       *

I breakfasted pretty late next morning and went for a stroll
afterwards. It seemed to me that anything I could do to clear the old
lemon ought to be done, and a bit of fresh air generally relieves that
rather foggy feeling that comes over a fellow early in the day. I had
taken a stroll in the park, and got back as far as Hyde Park Corner,
when some blighter sloshed me between the shoulder-blades. It was young
Eustace, my cousin. He was arm-in-arm with two other fellows, the one
on the outside being my cousin Claude and the one in the middle a
pink-faced chappie with light hair and an apologetic sort of look.

"Bertie, old egg!" said young Eustace affably.

"Hallo!" I said, not frightfully chirpily.

"Fancy running into you, the one man in London who can support us
in the style we are accustomed to! By the way, you've never met
old Dog-Face, have you? Dog-Face, this is my cousin Bertie. Lord
Rainsby--Mr. Wooster. We've just been round to your flat, Bertie.
Bitterly disappointed that you were out, but were hospitably
entertained by old Jeeves. That man's a corker, Bertie. Stick to him."

"What are you doing in London?" I asked.

"Oh, buzzing round. We're just up for the day. Flying visit, strictly
unofficial. We oil back on the three-ten. And now, touching that lunch
you very decently volunteered to stand us, which shall it be? Ritz?
Savoy? Carlton? Or, if you're a member of Ciro's or the Embassy, that
would do just as well."

"I can't give you lunch. I've got an engagement myself. And, by Jove,"
I said, taking a look at my watch, "I'm late." I hailed a taxi. "Sorry."

"As man to man, then," said Eustace, "lend us a fiver."

I hadn't time to stop and argue. I unbelted the fiver and hopped into
the cab. It was twenty to two when I got to the flat. I bounded into
the sitting-room, but it was empty.

Jeeves shimmied in.

"Sir Roderick has not yet arrived, sir."

"Good egg!" I said. "I thought I should find him smashing up the
furniture." My experience is that the less you want a fellow, the more
punctual he's bound to be, and I had had a vision of the old lad pacing
the rug in my sitting-room, saying "He cometh not!" and generally
hotting up. "Is everything in order?"

"I fancy you will find the arrangements quite satisfactory, sir."

"What are you giving us?"

"Cold consomme, a cutlet, and a savoury, sir. With lemon-squash, iced."

"Well, I don't see how that can hurt him. Don't go getting carried away
by the excitement of the thing and start bringing in coffee."

"No, sir."

"And don't let your eyes get glassy, because, if you do, you're apt to
find yourself in a padded cell before you know where you are."

"Very good, sir."

There was a ring at the bell.

"Stand by, Jeeves," I said. "We're off!"




