CHAPTER III

AUNT AGATHA SPEAKS HER MIND


I suppose in the case of a chappie of really fine fibre and all that
sort of thing, a certain amount of gloom and anguish would have
followed this dishing of young Bingo's matrimonial plans. I mean, if
mine had been a noble nature, I would have been all broken up. But,
what with one thing and another, I can't say I let it weigh on me very
heavily. The fact that less than a week after he had had the bad news I
came on young Bingo dancing like an untamed gazelle at Ciro's helped me
to bear up.

A resilient bird, Bingo. He may be down, but he is never out. While
these little love-affairs of his are actually on, nobody could be more
earnest and blighted; but once the fuse has blown out and the girl has
handed him his hat and begged him as a favour never to let her see him
again, up he bobs as merry and bright as ever. If I've seen it happen
once, I've seen it happen a dozen times.

So I didn't worry about Bingo. Or about anything else, as a matter of
fact. What with one thing and another, I can't remember ever having
been chirpier than at about this period in my career. Everything seemed
to be going right. On three separate occasions horses on which I'd
invested a sizeable amount won by lengths instead of sitting down to
rest in the middle of the race, as horses usually do when I've got
money on them.

Added to this, the weather continued topping to a degree; my new socks
were admitted on all sides to be just the kind that mother makes; and,
to round it all off, my Aunt Agatha had gone to France and wouldn't be
on hand to snooter me for at least another six weeks. And, if you knew
my Aunt Agatha, you'd agree that that alone was happiness enough for
anyone.

It suddenly struck me so forcibly, one morning while I was having
my bath, that I hadn't a worry on earth that I began to sing like a
bally nightingale as I sploshed the sponge about. It seemed to me that
everything was absolutely for the best in the best of all possible
worlds.

But have you ever noticed a rummy thing about life? I mean the way
something always comes along to give it you in the neck at the very
moment when you're feeling most braced about things in general. No
sooner had I dried the old limbs and shoved on the suiting and toddled
into the sitting-room than the blow fell. There was a letter from Aunt
Agatha on the mantelpiece.

"Oh gosh!" I said when I'd read it.

"Sir?" said Jeeves. He was fooling about in the background on some job
or other.

"It's from my Aunt Agatha, Jeeves. Mrs. Gregson, you know."

"Yes, sir?"

"Ah, you wouldn't speak in that light, careless tone if you knew what
was in it," I said with a hollow, mirthless laugh. "The curse has come
upon us, Jeeves. She wants me to go and join her at--what's the name of
the dashed place?--at Roville-sur-mer. Oh, hang it all!"

"I had better be packing, sir?"

"I suppose so."

To people who don't know my Aunt Agatha I find it extraordinarily
difficult to explain why it is that she has always put the wind up
me to such a frightful extent. I mean, I'm not dependent on her
financially or anything like that. It's simply personality, I've come
to the conclusion. You see, all through my childhood and when I was a
kid at school she was always able to turn me inside out with a single
glance, and I haven't come out from under the 'fluence yet. We run to
height a bit in our family, and there's about five-foot-nine of Aunt
Agatha, topped off with a beaky nose, an eagle eye, and a lot of grey
hair, and the general effect is pretty formidable. Anyway, it never
even occurred to me for a moment to give her the miss-in-baulk on this
occasion. If she said I must go to Roville, it was all over except
buying the tickets.

"What's the idea, Jeeves? I wonder why she wants me."

"I could not say, sir."

Well, it was no good talking about it. The only gleam of consolation,
the only bit of blue among the clouds, was the fact that at Roville
I should at last be able to wear the rather fruity cummerbund I had
bought six months ago and had never had the nerve to put on. One of
those silk contrivances, you know, which you tie round your waist
instead of a waistcoat, something on the order of a sash only more
substantial. I had never been able to muster up the courage to put it
on so far, for I knew that there would be trouble with Jeeves when
I did, it being a pretty brightish scarlet. Still, at a place like
Roville, presumably dripping with the gaiety and _joie de vivre_ of
France, it seemed to me that something might be done.

       *       *       *       *       *

Roville, which I reached early in the morning after a beastly choppy
crossing and a jerky night in the train, is a fairly nifty spot where
a chappie without encumbrances in the shape of aunts might spend a
somewhat genial week or so. It is like all these French places, mainly
sands and hotels and casinos. The hotel which had had the bad luck to
draw Aunt Agatha's custom was the Splendide, and by the time I got
there there wasn't a member of the staff who didn't seem to be feeling
it deeply. I sympathised with them. I've had experience of Aunt Agatha
at hotels before. Of course, the real rough work was all over when I
arrived, but I could tell by the way every one grovelled before her
that she had started by having her first room changed because it hadn't
a southern exposure and her next because it had a creaking wardrobe and
that she had said her say on the subject of the cooking, the waiting,
the chambermaiding and everything else, with perfect freedom and
candour. She had got the whole gang nicely under control by now. The
manager, a whiskered cove who looked like a bandit, simply tied himself
into knots whenever she looked at him.

All this triumph had produced a sort of grim geniality in her, and she
was almost motherly when we met.

"I am so glad you were able to come, Bertie," she said. "The air will
do you so much good. Far better for you than spending your time in
stuffy London night clubs."

"Oh, ah," I said.

"You will meet some pleasant people, too. I want to introduce you to
a Miss Hemmingway and her brother, who have become great friends of
mine. I am sure you will like Miss Hemmingway. A nice, quiet girl, so
different from so many of the bold girls one meets in London nowadays.
Her brother is curate at Chipley-in-the-Glen in Dorsetshire. He tells
me they are connected with the Kent Hemmingways. A very good family.
She is a charming girl."

I had a grim foreboding of an awful doom. All this boosting was
so unlike Aunt Agatha, who normally is one of the most celebrated
right-and-left-hand knockers in London society. I felt a clammy
suspicion. And by Jove, I was right.

"Aline Hemmingway," said Aunt Agatha, "is just the girl I should like
to see you marry, Bertie. You ought to be thinking of getting married.
Marriage might make something of you. And I could not wish you a better
wife than dear Aline. She would be such a good influence in your life."

"Here, I say!" I chipped in at this juncture, chilled to the marrow.

"Bertie!" said Aunt Agatha, dropping the motherly manner for a bit and
giving me the cold eye.

"Yes, but I say...."

"It is young men like you, Bertie, who make the person with the future
of the race at heart despair. Cursed with too much money, you fritter
away in idle selfishness a life which might have been made useful,
helpful and profitable. You do nothing but waste your time on frivolous
pleasures. You are simply an anti-social animal, a drone. Bertie, it is
imperative that you marry."

"But, dash it all...."

"Yes! You should be breeding children to...."

"No, really, I say, please!" I said, blushing richly. Aunt Agatha
belongs to two or three of these women's clubs, and she keeps
forgetting she isn't in the smoking-room.

"Bertie," she resumed, and would no doubt have hauled up her slacks at
some length, had we not been interrupted. "Ah, here they are!" she
said. "Aline, dear!"

And I perceived a girl and a chappie bearing down on me smiling in a
pleased sort of manner.

"I want you to meet my nephew, Bertie Wooster," said Aunt Agatha. "He
has just arrived. Such a surprise! I had no notion that he intended
coming to Roville."

I gave the couple the wary up-and-down, feeling rather like a cat in
the middle of a lot of hounds. Sort of trapped feeling, you know what I
mean. An inner voice was whispering that Bertram was up against it.

The brother was a small round cove with a face rather like a sheep. He
wore pince-nez, his expression was benevolent, and he had on one of
those collars which button at the back.

"Welcome to Roville, Mr. Wooster," he said.

"Oh, Sidney!" said the girl. "Doesn't Mr. Wooster remind you of Canon
Blenkinsop, who came to Chipley to preach last Easter?"

"My dear! The resemblance is most striking!"

They peered at me for a while as if I were something in a glass case,
and I goggled back and had a good look at the girl. There's no doubt
about it, she was different from what Aunt Agatha had called the bold
girls one meets in London nowadays. No bobbed hair and gaspers about
_her_! I don't know when I've met anybody who looked so--respectable
is the only word. She had on a kind of plain dress, and her hair was
plain, and her face was sort of mild and saint-like. I don't pretend to
be a Sherlock Holmes or anything of that order, but the moment I looked
at her I said to myself, "The girl plays the organ in a village church!"

Well, we gazed at one another for a bit, and there was a certain amount
of chit-chat, and then I tore myself away. But before I went I had
been booked up to take brother and the girl for a nice drive that
afternoon. And the thought of it depressed me to such an extent that I
felt there was only one thing to be done. I went straight back to my
room, dug out the cummerbund, and draped it round the old tum. I turned
round and Jeeves shied like a startled mustang.

"I beg your pardon, sir," he said in a sort of hushed voice. "You are
surely not proposing to appear in public in that thing?"

"The cummerbund?" I said in a careless, debonair way, passing it off.
"Oh, rather!"

"I should not advise it, sir, really I shouldn't."

"Why not?"

"The effect, sir, is loud in the extreme."

I tackled the blighter squarely. I mean to say, nobody knows better
than I do that Jeeves is a master mind and all that, but, dash it, a
fellow must call his soul his own. You can't be a serf to your valet.
Besides, I was feeling pretty low and the cummerbund was the only thing
which could cheer me up.

"You know, the trouble with you, Jeeves," I said, "is that you're
too--what's the word I want?--too bally insular. You can't realise that
you aren't in Piccadilly all the time. In a place like this a bit of
colour and touch of the poetic is expected of you. Why, I've just seen
a fellow downstairs in a morning suit of yellow velvet."

"Nevertheless, sir----"

"Jeeves," I said firmly, "my mind is made up. I am feeling a little
low spirited and need cheering. Besides, what's wrong with it? This
cummerbund seems to me to be called for. I consider that it has rather
a Spanish effect. A touch of the hidalgo. Sort of Vicente y Blasco
What's-his-name stuff. The jolly old hidalgo off to the bull fight."

"Very good, sir," said Jeeves coldly.

Dashed upsetting, this sort of thing. If there's one thing that gives
me the pip, it's unpleasantness in the home; and I could see that
relations were going to be pretty fairly strained for a while. And,
coming on top of Aunt Agatha's bombshell about the Hemmingway girl, I
don't mind confessing it made me feel more or less as though nobody
loved me.

       *       *       *       *       *

The drive that afternoon was about as mouldy as I had expected. The
curate chappie prattled on of this and that; the girl admired the view;
and I got a headache early in the proceedings which started at the
soles of my feet and got worse all the way up. I tottered back to my
room to dress for dinner, feeling like a toad under the harrow. If it
hadn't been for that cummerbund business earlier in the day I could
have sobbed on Jeeves's neck and poured out all my troubles to him.
Even as it was, I couldn't keep the thing entirely to myself.

"I say, Jeeves," I said.

"Sir?"

"Mix me a stiffish brandy and soda."

"Yes, sir."

"Stiffish, Jeeves. Not too much soda, but splash the brandy about a
bit."

"Very good, sir."

After imbibing, I felt a shade better.

"Jeeves," I said.

"Sir?"

"I rather fancy I'm in the soup, Jeeves."

"Indeed, sir?"

I eyed the man narrowly. Dashed aloof his manner was. Still brooding
over the cummerbund.

"Yes. Right up to the hocks," I said, suppressing the pride of the
Woosters and trying to induce him to be a bit matier. "Have you seen a
girl popping about here with a parson brother?"

"Miss Hemmingway, sir? Yes, sir."

"Aunt Agatha wants me to marry her."

"Indeed, sir?"

"Well, what about it?"

"Sir?"

"I mean, have you anything to suggest?"

"No, sir."

The blighter's manner was so cold and unchummy that I bit the bullet
and had a dash at being airy.

"Oh, well, tra-la-la!" I said.

"Precisely, sir," said Jeeves.

And that was, so to speak, that.




